So now let's talk
about Lambda execution roles and permissions.
So we've done a lot of this already through the hands-on
so I'm sure that you understand exactly how this works
but it's good to go back
to a theory lecture just to try it out.
So an IAM Role must be attached to your lambda function
and this will grant the Lambda function
the permission to access AWS services and resources.
And there are some simple managed policies for Lambda
that we can reuse, for example, the BasicExecutionRole
which allowed us to upload logs to CloudWatch,
but there is the KinesisExecutionRole to read from Kinesis,
the DynamoDBExecutionRole to read from DynamoDB streams,
the SQSQueueExecutionRole to read from SQS,
the LambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole,
which is allowing us to deploy Lambda functions
inside our VPC, as we'll see in this section,
and the XrayDaemonWriteAccess to upload trace data to X-Ray
as we'll see in this section as well.
So this are managed policies
but we can create obviously our own policy for Lambda.
So whenever we use an event source mapping
to invoke our function,
Lambda is the one thing that we'll be reading the data,
and so therefore we must use an execution role
to read the event data.
In the other way, the Lambda function was invoked
by other services so we didn't need a specific IAM Role
with some specific permissions.
By the way the best practice
is to create one Lambda execution role per function,
as we've been doing so far in the hands-on.
So, this is for the event source mapping,
or if our Lambda function actually needs
to invoke other services,
but what about if our Lambda function
is invoked by other services,
then we use resource-based policy,
and this is to give other accounts
or other AWS services permissions
to use your Lambda resources,
so, to invoke it on the function,
and this is very similar to an S3 bucket policy
for Amazon S3 buckets.
So the rule is that's an IAM principle
can access your Lambda function
if one of these two things happen.
First, the IAM policy attached
to the principal authorizes it.
So for example, we have our IAM user
and we have full permissions,
so we can access our Lambda function,
this is what we've been doing so far,
thanks to our administrator access policy.
Or if we have a resource-based policy
to authorize access to Lambda function,
this is more helpful
when you have a service to service access.
So we've seen it before, but we'll see it again.
When another AWS service like Amazon S3
wants to invoke our Lambda function,
then we need to make sure the resource-based policy
gives it access.
And this is something that's the console
has unforced behind the scenes,
but if you were to do your own integrations,
this is where you would do it yourself.
So let's go and do the console to see how that works.